# MS-900

## 核心服务与概念

### 什么是Microsoft365

> Microsoft 365 是基于云的订阅服务，由 Office 应用、Teams、Windows、世界级的安全性等产品组合组成。

* Office365
* Microsoft365: A superset of Office 365
* Windows365: A subscription service for organizations that allows you to create and run PCs remotely

### Microsoft365的订阅选项

* Microsoft 365 Home
  * Microsoft 365 Personal
  * Microsoft 365 Family
* Microsoft 365 Education
* Microsoft 365 Government
* Microsoft 365 Business
* Microsoft 365 for frontline workers
* Microsoft 365 Enterprise

Microsoft 365应用在 Microsoft 365 商业版应用 和 Microsoft 365 企业版应用 订阅中均可用。
这些应用由 Office 应用程序套件 (如 Word、Excel、PowerPoint、OneNote、Outlook、Teams、Publisher 和 访问权限) 组成 (Publisher 和访问权限仅在电脑上可用)。

### Apps

* Bookings is a web-based appointment scheduling and management system.
* Planner is a task management tool that enables people to plan, manage, and complete tasks on a Kanban board.
* To Do is an intelligent task management app designed for **personal** use.
* Exchange Online is a hosted messaging solution that gives users the ability to communicate in email, access their calendar, and store contacts, all in one place.
* Teams provides engaging and inclusive meetings and real-time messaging to connect with colleagues, wherever you are.
* Microsoft Viva 是一个员工体验平台 (EXP)，它使人员和团队能够随时随地获得最佳体验。
  * Viva 将日常工作和协作流中的通信、见解、知识、学习和资源汇集在一起。
  * Viva 由 Microsoft 365 的完整广度和深度提供支持。
  * 它通过 Microsoft Teams 以及人们每天使用的其他 Microsoft 365 应用进行体验。
  * Viva 包括四个模块 –Viva Connections、Viva Insights、Viva Topics 和 Viva Learning。
* SharePoint lets you collaborate, share content, and coordinate your work within your organization.
  * 可以在 SharePoint 中创建团队网站、通信网站和中心网站。
* OneDrive gives you secure access and file storage from anywhere.
* Yammer is an enterprise social network that allows people to engage and connect across the organization.
  * Yammer、Microsoft Teams 和 Microsoft Stream 可以让你使用不同类型的内容并举办大型在线活动。

## Endpoint modernization, management concepts, and deployment options

### Endpoint management

> Microsoft Endpoint Manager (MEM) is a secure and intelligent management solution that improves productivity and collaboration with the familiar experiences users expect.

Microsoft Endpoint Manager includes the following service and capabilities:

* Microsoft Intune.
  * Intune is a 100% cloud-based mobile device management (MDM) and mobile application management (MAM) provider for your apps and devices.
  * It lets you control features and settings on Android, Android Enterprise, iOS/iPadOS, macOS, and Windows devices.
  * It integrates with other services, including Azure Active Directory (Azure AD), mobile threat defenders, ADMX templates, Win32 and custom LOB apps, and more.
  * Create and check for compliance, deploy apps, features, and settings to your devices using the cloud.
* Configuration Manager.
  * Configuration Manager is an on-premises management solution to manage desktops, servers, and laptops that are on your network or internet-based.
  * You can cloud-enable it to integrate with Intune, Azure AD, Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, and other cloud services.
  * Use Configuration Manager to deploy apps, software updates, operating systems, monitor compliance, act on clients in real time and more.
* Co-management.
  * Co-management combines your existing on-premises Configuration Manager investment with the cloud using Intune and other Microsoft 365 cloud services.
  * You choose whether Configuration Manager or Intune is the management authority for the seven different workload groups.
  * As part of Endpoint Manager, co-management uses cloud features, including conditional access.
* Desktop Analytics.
  * Desktop Analytics is a cloud-based service that integrates with Configuration Manager.
  * It provides insight and intelligence for you to make more informed decisions about the update readiness of your Windows clients.
  * The service combines data from your organization with data aggregated from millions of devices connected to the Microsoft cloud.
  * It provides information on security updates, apps, and devices in your organization, and identifies compatibility issues with apps and drivers.
* Windows Autopilot.
  * Windows Autopilot sets up and pre-configures new devices, getting them ready for use.
  * It's designed to simplify the lifecycle of Windows devices, for both IT and end-users, from initial deployment through end of life.
  * You can use Autopilot to preconfigure devices, and automatically enroll devices in Intune.
  * You can also integrate Autopilot with Configuration Manager and co-management for more complex device configurations (in preview).
* Azure AD.
  * Azure AD is used by Endpoint Manager for identity of devices, users, groups, and multi-factor authentication (MFA).
  * Azure AD Premium, which may be an extra cost, has other features to help protect devices, apps, and data, including dynamic groups, auto-enrollment, and conditional access.
* Endpoint Manager admin center.
  * This admin center is a one-stop web site to create policies and manage your devices.
  * It plugs-in other key device management services, including groups, security, conditional access, and reporting.
  * This admin center also shows devices managed by Configuration Manager and Intune (in preview).

### Windows 365 VS Azure Virtual Desktop

> Windows 365 and Azure Virtual Desktop services are both virtual desktop solutions, also known as Desktop-as-a-Service.  
> Windows-as-a-Service is a new model for Windows. Instead of a major release every three or four years, features are released more frequently, such as semi-annually.

Windows 365 is a cloud-based service that automatically creates a new type of Windows virtual machine, known as Cloud PCs, for your end users.

Windows 365 is available in two subscription offerings:

* Windows 365 Business is made specifically for smaller organizations (up to 300 seats) who want ready-to-use Cloud PCs with simple management options.
* Windows 365 Enterprise is for larger organizations who want unlimited seats for creating Cloud PCs. It includes options to create custom Cloud PCs based on device images that you create, more management options, and full integration with Microsoft Endpoint Manager.

Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) is a modern and secure desktop and app virtualization solution on Azure. AVD allows users to connect to a Windows desktop running in the cloud. It's the only solution that delivers multi-session on Windows.

## Microsoft365的分析功能

### Viva Insight

* Personal Insights: valuable insights to improve work patterns through actionable recommendations
* Manager Insights: provide insight to foster a healthy and successful team.
* Organizational Insights: show leaders an aggregated view of work and collaboration patterns across their organizations

### 管理中心

Microsoft 365 管理中心提供的两类报告是生产力得分和使用情况报告。
